Server 10.15.0 Release Notes (#49)
owncloud/docs-main: modules/ROOT/pages/server_release_notes.adoc

toc::[]

== Changes in 10.15.0

Dear ownCloud administrator, find below the changes and known issues in ownCloud Server 10.15.0 that need your attention. You can also read the {oc-changelog-url}[full ownCloud Server changelog] for further details on what has changed.

[discrete]
=== Allow Users to Only Update Own External Storage Configurations

Prevent users from changing external storage configurations not belonging to them. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41225[#41225]

[discrete]
=== Verify Link in Public Link Notification OCS Share API

The frontend is generating the URL to the public link share and submitting it to the server via the OCS Share API. Via the pure usage of this API any URL could be sent out to any email address (as long as being logged in). This change adds some hardening and validates that the URL is pointing to one of the configured trusted domains. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41214[#41214]

[discrete] 
=== Sanitize SVG

> For the purpose of hardening SVG support, `xlink:href` as well as other `ìmage` tags will now completely be blocked. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41234[#41234]   

Author: ```suggestion
For the purpose of hardening SVG support, `xlink:href` as well as other `ìmage` tags will be now completely blocked. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41234[#41234]   
```

> For the purpose of hardening SVG support, `xlink:href` as well as other `ìmage` tags will be now completely blocked. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41234[#41234]   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the purpose of hardening SVG support, `xlink:href` as well as other `ìmage` tags will now be completely blocked. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41234[#41234]   
```

[discrete]
=== Remove IoC Scanner Instructions

> IoC scanner instructions, firstly introduced in 10.13.4, which were displayed during upgrade (console as well as Web Updater) and in the admin settings have been now completely removed. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41260[#41260]

Author: ```suggestion
IoC scanner instructions, firstly introduced in 10.13.4 and which were displayed during upgrade (console as well as Web Updater) and in the admin settings, have been now completely removed. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41260[#41260]
```

[discrete]
=== Fail Fast on Unresponsive Remote Servers

> In case a remote/federated server is not responding the share will not be added and any request will now fail faster. Additionally, the checks for reachability now include the port number. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41210[#41210] https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41237[#41237]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a remote/federated server is not responding the share will not be added and any request will now fail faster. Additionally, the checks for reachability now include the port number. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41210[#41210] https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41237[#41237]
```

[discrete]
=== Handle no Longer Existing Users in Preview Cleanup

> A deleted user can still have previews in database (mainly because the final delete job did not complete yet). Such users are no longer being processed so that no exceptions will be generated by the preview cleanup job. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41247[#41247]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A deleted user can still have previews in the database (mainly because the final delete job did not complete yet). Such users are no longer being processed so that no exceptions will be generated by the preview cleanup job. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41247[#41247]
```

[discrete]

> === No Update Check if Not Connected to the Internet

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== No Update Check If Not Connected to the Internet
```

> In case an ownCloud instance is not connected to the internet there is no need for polling for updates in the update notification app. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41262[#41262]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an ownCloud instance is not connected to the internet there is no need for polling for updates in the update notification app. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41262[#41262]
```

[discrete]
=== Remove Logic for Internet Explorer 11 Compatibility

Internet Explorer 11 deprecation was already announced in version 10.13.0. Now JavaScript Internet Explorer 11-compatible logic has been completely removed. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41107[#41107]

[discrete]

> === Default Value of `preview_max_dimensions` is Now 6016x6016

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Default Value of `preview_max_dimensions` Is Now 6016x6016
```

Reviewer 2: Chicago style title capitalization

> The config.php option `preview_max_dimensions` which is being used to define the maximum dimensions of the original image for preview generation defaults now to 6016x6016. This allows processing of 4K portrait images by default. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41263[#41263]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The config.php option `preview_max_dimensions` which is being used to define the maximum dimensions of the original image for preview generation now defaults to 6016x6016. This allows processing of 4K portrait images by default. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41263[#41263]
```

toc::[]

== Changes in 10.15.0

Dear ownCloud administrator, find below the changes and known issues in ownCloud Server 10.15.0 that need your attention. You can also read the {oc-changelog-url}[full ownCloud Server changelog] for further details on what has changed.

[discrete]
=== New Feature Telemetry Reporting for Enterprise Customers

> Servers with a license key installed will send daily telemetry reports unless opted out. See direct customer communication, https://4067630.fs1.hubspotusercontent-na1.net/hubfs/4067630/2024%20ownCloud%20Assets/Brief%20-%20Telemetry%20for%20ownCloud%20Customers%20-%202024-07-30.pdf[the telemtry brief] and our general

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Servers with a license key installed will send daily telemetry reports unless opted out. See direct customer communication, https://4067630.fs1.hubspotusercontent-na1.net/hubfs/4067630/2024%20ownCloud%20Assets/Brief%20-%20Telemetry%20for%20ownCloud%20Customers%20-%202024-07-30.pdf[the telemetry brief] and our general
```

[discrete]
=== Default Value of `preview_max_dimensions` Is Now 6016x6016

The config.php option `preview_max_dimensions` which is being used to define the maximum dimensions of the original image for preview generation now defaults to 6016x6016. This allows processing of 4K portrait images by default. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41263[#41263]

[discrete]
=== Disallow HTTP API Requests for User External Storages When Disabled

The admin UI setting 'Allow users to mount external storage' now also controls if requests into the files_external API are allowed. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41250

[discrete]
=== Updated App Versions

Find below a list of updated apps in comparison with the 10.14.0 complete bundle. More information on the changes can be found in the respective changelogs on ownCloud Marketplace.

* Config Report: 0.3.0
* {oc-marketplace-url}/apps/customgroups[Custom Groups]: 0.9.1
* {oc-marketplace-url}/apps/files_classifier[Document Classification]: 1.5.2
* {oc-marketplace-url}/apps/market[Market]: 0.9.0
* Updater: 1.1.1

> * {oc-marketplace-url}/apps/windows_network_drive[External Storage: Windows Network Drives]: 2.4.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* {oc-marketplace-url}/apps/windows_network_drive[External Storage: Windows Network Drives]: 2.4.1
```

[discrete]
=== Remove Logic for Internet Explorer 11 Compatibility

Internet Explorer 11 deprecation was already announced in version 10.13.0. Now JavaScript Internet Explorer 11-compatible logic has been completely removed. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41107[#41107]

[discrete]
=== Default Value of `preview_max_dimensions` Is Now 6016x6016

The config.php option `preview_max_dimensions` which is being used to define the maximum dimensions of the original image for preview generation now defaults to 6016x6016. This allows processing of 4K portrait images by default. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41263[#41263]

[discrete]
=== Disallow HTTP API Requests for User External Storages When Disabled

The admin UI setting 'Allow users to mount external storage' now also controls if requests into the files_external API are allowed. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/41250

[discrete]
=== Updated App Versions

Find below a list of updated apps in comparison with the 10.14.0 complete bundle. More information on the changes can be found in the respective changelogs on ownCloud Marketplace.

* Config Report: 0.3.0

> * {oc-marketplace-url}/apps/customgroups[Custom Groups]: 0.9.1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* {oc-marketplace-url}/apps/customgroups[Custom Groups]: 0.9.1
* {oc-marketplace-url}/apps/diagnostics[Diagnostics]: 0.2.1
```
